Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture we're gonna have a look at Delta time.
It's not something we've used yet.
You've probably noticed it is on the tick component there as well.
At the moment whether you realize it or not but everybody is going to have a different door speed depending
on the speed of their computer.
It's directly linked to the frames per second and that's not right.
The doors should open a consistent speed regardless of the computer that the games being played on Now
currently they will open up faster on a faster computer which is just obscene.
It makes it a bit more challenging for those that have got a faster computer because obviously they
could shut again a lot faster.
Now the delta time that we're going to play with is the time between frames being rendered.
So for instance 60 frames per second or 160 for the second or nought point nought 1 6 6 6 recurring
seconds all and you've probably seen this before around 16 milliseconds 16 17 milliseconds.
So if we include delta time when we actually do our look that will mean that it will be frame rate independent
which is really useful and something we do need to consider when we're doing any source of movement.
We don't want it to be based upon how fast someone's computer is.
So first of all let's go over into on real and actually enable frames per second and actually see what
the difference is.
OK so if I only go to the top left of the viewport we can show our frames per second or control shift
an h we go ahead and do that we see we're currently hovering around 60 frames per second.
So when we press play One two three four around four seconds or so starting at 1:00 we have our door
fully open.
OK.
So what happens if we change the frame rate.
Well let's go to edit project settings opens up in a new tab.
I I'm happy for open opening there.
If it opens up in a separate window for you remember you can dock the taps under the engine.
If we keep going down to general settings and at the bottom of this there's an option or several options
under frame rates I'm going to put a ticking use fixed frame rate and take it down to 15 frames per
second.
Now if the door opening speed is directly linked to our frame rates should now take around four times
longer or greater than 10 seconds to open our door.
Now because the frame rate is being shown we can confirm it is now running at 15 frames per second.
And when we press play I'm expecting this thought's taken eons open you ready play.
One two three four five six.
You get that you get the point here.
Now if we were trying to escape the room and the door was shutting on us it would be much easier on
a slower system than it would be on a much quicker system.
And this is something that is even played triple-A games.
There is a need for speed.
That did suffer from it very very badly.
It was locked at 30 frames per second.
And if you increase this to 60 frames per second the game broke basically.
So it's easy to forget about and very easy to prevent.
So let's go over into V.S. code and type in one word that will solve our problems and I'm going to open
up Visual Studio code in this case by clicking on my door going over to the component right clicking
and open door or H.
And we do need the implementation and you will notice here on line 30 that we have something called
Delta time so it's available for us to use.
So if we come down and instead of here with our current yaw instead of just changing by this amount
every frame.
If we multiply that by delta time that will solve our issue.
However Delta time at 60 frames per second is 16 milliseconds so this is going to end up being a very
small number at the moment.
I'm going to say times by one point f.
Now bear in mind that this is actually just equal to delta time.
This is just I'm leaving this here to say look we can change how quickly opens it doesn't just have
to be delta time.
Now I know through experimentation that this is going to be roughly right again.
But if we come back out into for recompile with the frame rate still at 15 frames per second I'd expect
it to only take three seconds or so to open the door again there we go.
Compiles complete it'll be jerky but one two three.
There we go we're open again even though we're only running at 15.
And just to prove that it's now not going to open stupidly quick we can even set that back to 60 or
toggle used fixed frame off.
We can confirm it's bounced back up press play and it opens up at the same rate again.
Now if we want we can come back into here and change that value obviously at one it's the same as delta
time but if we wanted it to open slightly quicker we could put a larger number in there.
We still wanted it open slower.
Then of course we can put a different number in here something like maybe nought point five.
Something along those lines.
Make sure you save your code come back in compile okay and press play.
And now opens a little bit slower than it did before.
So these are all play testing tweaks and tunes that you can do now that you're aware of delta time and
delta time doesn't just affect things like doors opening it can affect the physics of a game it can
affect how a player moves as well.
So we do want to make sure that anything we put in to do with movement or physics or player input always
is multiplied by delta time to prevent some crazy stuff from happening.
That's it for this lecture and I'll see you all in the next one.